added about product link rules article (#437)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/assets/about-product-link-rules.md

---
id: assets-product-link-rules
themes: administration, manage-your-assets
title: About the **product link rules**
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: work-with-assets, upload-assets
---

# What if we automated the link between assets and products?

The `product link rule` feature enables you to automatically link assets to products, based on assets **attributes**. Indeed, most of you use a *naming convention* to name your assets, so it is quite simple to automate this link in order to gain time in your daily work.  

With the new Asset Manager, it is now possible to define this convention in the PIM in order to automatically make the link between your assets and your products.  

Yes, I agree with you, it looks promising ;) So let me introduce you the first part of this product link rule functionality: the `naming convention`.

## Focus on the naming convention

We noticed that you, our dear customers, usually name your asset files or asset codes using precious information:
- the SKU of the product corresponding to the asset,
- the locale into which your user guides are translated,
- the asset function: _Is it a frontview, backview,...?_,
- ...

> The idea of the naming convention feature is to be able to extract those pieces of information and use them to automatically enrich your assets with new attributes values.

Reviewer: Et aussi pour l'utiliser pour lier automatiquement aux produits (ça vaut le coup de se répéter ;) )

:::info

> Just a reminder but an important one for you to better understand what is coming next: *the product link rule is based on asset attributes* ;)

Reviewer: J'aurais lié les 2 phrases, ça permet de les enrichir et de lier automatiquement aux produits

:::

By defining a naming convention, for each [asset family](#the-asset-family), the PIM will be able to split the asset code or the main media filename, in order to extract the information you want and use it to populate asset attributes.
This operation is done automatically by the PIM upon each asset creation.

::: info
This naming convention is defined at the [asset family](#the-asset-family) level.
:::

::: tips

> The naming convention is perfect to automatically populate the asset attributes that will then be used by the [product link rule](#focus-on-the-product-link-rule). :wink:

Reviewer: Redondant avec ce qui est dit plus haut, je supprimerai.

---
id: assets-product-link-rules
themes: administration, manage-your-assets
title: About the **product link rules**
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: work-with-assets, upload-assets
---

# What is a product link rule?

> The product link rule enables you to automatically link assets to products, based on assets name or attributes. This rule is defined at the asset family level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The product link rule enables you to automatically link assets to products, based on asset name or attributes. This rule is defined at the asset family level.
```

> This rule is launched by the PIM after the asset creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This rule is launched by the PIM after the asset is created.
```

You can define the product link rules via the [API](#https://api.akeneo.com/documentation/asset-manager.html#introduction) or directly in the PIM user interface, by editing a JSON field. The format is exactly the same in the API and in the PIM interface.

::: warning
The product link rule is only available to link assets to products. Yet, linking assets to product models has to be done manually, for now.
:::

> 

Reviewer: J'introduira plus tôt la convention de nommage avec un exemple car ça va être utilisé dans la plupart des cas.

::: info
You can have up to two different product link rules for one given asset family.
:::

A product link rule is divided into two parts:
- the `product_selections` part,
- the `assign_assets_to` part.

> ::: info

Reviewer: Je mettrai ça après quand tu rentres dans le détail

A piece of advice: when defining two different rules on an asset family, make sure you define different product selections in each rule, as shown in the example above. Why? Because you could experience performance issues. If you want to assign your assets to two different product attributes on a given selection of products, use one single rule, with two assignments in the `assign_assets_to` field. See the Product value assignment section for an example.

> :::

Reviewer: Je mettrai ça après quand tu rentres dans le détail

[Product link rules](image "Product link rules")

> Looks barbaric? Don't freak out! The following sections are here to help you understand this rule and how you can make the most of it. You'll see, it's super powerful! 😃

Reviewer 2: suggest "Looks difficult?" or "Looks challenging?" instead of barbaric...

## Product selection
The first part of the rule is a property called `product_selections`. This property will allow you to define a selection of products for which you want to automatically link the assets of the asset family.

In one single product link rule, you can define one or several product selections.

> To see the format of the `product selection`, please read [this article](https://api.akeneo.com/documentation/asset-manager.html#link-with-products-and-product-models) on our API website ;)

Reviewer: Idem que les transfos : voir direct le format ici ou au moins dans une copie d'écran ?

::: info

> You can use multiple conditions to make your selection. Those conditions are cumulated. For example, you can select the products that are **both** enabled **and** in the `men` category.

Reviewer 2: "cumulative" (as an adjective) is more commonly used than "cumulated"

:::

Here is the list of the fields you can use to select your products:

- Among the product properties:
  * the `product family`,
  * the `product categories`,
  * the `product status`,
- Among the product attributes:
  * the `identifier` attribute,
  * the `text` attributes,
  * the `simple/multi select` attributes.

[Here](https://api.akeneo.com/documentation/asset-manager.html#product-selection) is the complete explanation of the expected JSON format.

## Product value assignment

> Once you have chosen and selected the products you want to apply the rule on, it is time to think about where, in the products, you want to assign those assets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have chosen and selected the products you want to apply the rule to, it is time to think about where, in the products, you want to assign those assets.
```

This is done in the second part of the product link rule, in the `assign_assets_to` property. Thanks to this property, you will define to which product value you want to assign your assets. In other words, which attribute, locale and scope of the products you want to link your assets to. You can also decide whether you want to **add** new assets or **replace** the existing ones inside this product attribute.

> # Asset values extrapolation

Reviewer: Je parlerai plus d'utilisation d'une convention de nommage de fichiers.

Author: Je suis pas sûre de bien comprendre ton commentaire, ce sont 2 choses différentes l'extrapolation de la product link rule et la convention de nommage :)

"Asset values extrapolation"? What the hell is that? It's the clever naming I just came up with to explain one last thing about the product link rule.

You now know how to [select your products](#product_selection), and then [assign your assets](#product_value_assignment) in the right product attribute. That's a good start.

But in some cases, you might need the rule to be a bit more powerful so it answers your expectations.
As an example is better than 10,000 words, let's imagine this situation.

## How does it work?
You put all your user guides in the same asset family, called `user_instructions`.
On the one hand, you have an asset of this family, let's say the user guide for a particular TV, the `XMLD500 TV`. This user guide asset has the following code: `XMLD500_fr_FR_user_guide`. It is the French version of the user guide for this TV.  

> On the other hand, you have your TV which SKU is `XMLD500`. The product sheet of this TV has an asset collection attribute called `user_guides`. It is localizable.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the other hand, you have your TV and its SKU is `XMLD500`. The product sheet for this TV has an asset collection attribute called `user_guides`. It is localizable.  
```

> Now, what you want is to automatically link the `XMLD500_fr_FR_user_guide` to the `XMLD500` product, in the right attribute on the right locale, ie the French locale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, what you want is to automatically link the `XMLD500_fr_FR_user_guide` to the `XMLD500` product, in the right attribute on the right locale, i.e. the French locale.
```

> How do you do that? I'll tell you. You're gonna need "**asset value extrapolation**".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How do you do that? I'll tell you. You're going to need "**asset value extrapolation**".
```

"Asset value extrapolation" is a mechanism by which you can target specific asset values in various fields of the product link rule so that they can be interpreted depending on the asset it is currently linking.

As a prerequisite for this rule to work, we would need **two new attributes** in the structure of our `user_instructions` asset family. One named `product_ref`, and the other `locale`.
In our example, for our `XMLD500_fr_FR_user_guide` asset, we would store the values `XMLD500` into the `product_ref` attribute and `fr_FR` in the `locale` attribute.

::: info

> Those two new attributes can be easily filled by using the API and a simple regular expression on the code of the asset, as both information, the product reference and the locale are already in the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those two new attributes can be easily filled by using the API and a simple regular expression on the code of the asset, as both the product reference and the locale are already in the code.
```

:::

> In fine, the PIM is going to select the product which SKU is `XMLD500` and assign the asset to the `user_instructions` product attribute on the `fr_FR` locale. Exactly what we wanted. 😉

Reviewer 2: not sure what you are trying to say with "In fine"? Do you mean "As a result"?

Author: Yes

Author: I changed by "as a result". thanks :)
